---
title: 'An Introduction to Single Cell Transcriptomics'
date: 2022-11-07
permalink: /posts/2012/08/library-preparation-for-next-generation-sequencing/
tags:
  - ngs
  - scRNAseq
---

### Introduction

The deluge of papers performing single cell transcriptomics (scRNAseq) illustrates a herculean effort to characterise the heterogeneity of EVERYTHING. One archetypical application of scRNAseq being the identification of immune cell sub-types in the tumour microenvironments (TMEs) that may explain cancer prognosis'. Whether all these publications and consortiums have actually advanced our biological understanding is a separate question. Nonetheless, the hypothesis generating nature of these studies provides a spring-board to functionally validate cell sub-populations that drive tumour growth and resistance to treatment. 

There are plenty medium articles explaining the 'ideal workflow' for scRNAseq, so I will refrain (for now) on contributing to an already over-populated resource. In the interim I will think about how to differentiate my posts from others and maintain a high quality. After all, my posts are mainly for myself as a record (or 'second-brain) for information that I struggled to retrieve from the internet or learned through experience. If these help others, then that is a plus. This first post was written a year ago and has stagnated in my google docs since. The following will include the key principles behind scRNAseq. To ensure generalisability, I assume only the understanding of the properties of DNA and RNA (e.g. complementary base pairing and the 5'-3' directionality of DNA) and transcription.

### 
